Security_Design.md, before:

# Mutual TLS (mTLS) Implementation

## Overview

This application implements Mutual TLS (mTLS) for secure communication between the frontend and backend. mTLS ensures that both the client (frontend) and server (backend) authenticate each other using X.509 certificates, providing strong mutual authentication and encrypted communication.

## Certificate Management

Certificates are generated and stored in the `certs/` directory at the project root:

- **CA Certificate**: `ca.crt` and `ca.key` - The Certificate Authority used to sign both server and client certificates.
- **Server Certificate**: `server.crt` and `server.key` - Used by the backend server to prove its identity.
- **Client Certificate**: `client.crt` and `client.key` - Used by the frontend to authenticate with the backend.

Certificate paths and backend URL are configured via environment variables in the `.env` file at the project root:
- `CA_CERT=/absolute/path/to/certs/ca.crt`
- `SERVER_CERT=/absolute/path/to/certs/server.crt`
- `SERVER_KEY=/absolute/path/to/certs/server.key`
- `CLIENT_CERT=/absolute/path/to/certs/client.crt`
- `CLIENT_KEY=/absolute/path/to/certs/client.key`
- `BACKEND_URL=https://localhost:8000`

### Certificate Generation

The certificates were generated using OpenSSL. To regenerate them:

```bash
# Generate CA
openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:4096 -keyout ca.key -out ca.crt -days 365 -nodes -subj "/CN=MyCA"

# Generate server certificate
openssl req -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout server.key -out server.csr -nodes -subj "/CN=localhost"
openssl x509 -req -in server.csr -CA ca.crt -CAkey ca.key -out server.crt -days 365 -CAcreateserial

# Generate client certificate
openssl req -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout client.key -out client.csr -nodes -subj "/CN=client"
openssl x509 -req -in client.csr -CA ca.crt -CAkey ca.key -out client.crt -days 365
```

## Backend Configuration

The backend is a FastAPI application served by uvicorn with SSL/TLS enabled.

### Key Files:
- [`backend/main.py`](backend/main.py) - FastAPI application with API routes
- [`backend/run.py`](backend/run.py) - Server startup configuration

### SSL Configuration in `run.py`:
```python
import uvicorn
import os
import pathlib
from dotenv import load_dotenv, find_dotenv

if __name__ == "__main__":
    load_dotenv(find_dotenv())

    def resolve_cert_path(env_var):
        cert_path = os.environ[env_var]
        p = pathlib.Path(cert_path)
        if not p.is_absolute():
            # Assume relative to project root
            project_root = pathlib.Path(__file__).parent.parent
            p = project_root / p
        if not p.exists():
            raise FileNotFoundError(f"Certificate file not found: {p}")
        return str(p)

    uvicorn.run(
        "main:app",
        host="0.0.0.0",
        port=8000,
        ssl_keyfile=resolve_cert_path('SERVER_KEY'),
        ssl_certfile=resolve_cert_path('SERVER_CERT'),
        ssl_ca_certs=resolve_cert_path('CA_CERT'),
        ssl_verify_mode="CERT_REQUIRED",
        reload=True,
    )
```

- `ssl_keyfile` and `ssl_certfile`: Server's private key and certificate
- `ssl_ca_certs`: CA certificate to verify client certificates
- `ssl_verify_mode="CERT_REQUIRED"`: Requires and verifies client certificates

## Frontend Configuration

The frontend is a Next.js application that makes API calls to the backend using client certificates.

### Key Files:
- [`frontend/src/app/api/items/route.ts`](frontend/src/app/api/items/route.ts) - API route for items collection
- [`frontend/src/app/api/items/[id]/route.ts`](frontend/src/app/api/items/[id]/route.ts) - API route for individual items

### HTTPS Agent Configuration in `frontend/src/lib/https-agent.ts`:
```typescript
import https from 'https';
import fs from 'fs';
import path from 'path';

// Resolve and check certificate paths
const clientCertPath = path.resolve(process.cwd(), process.env.CLIENT_CERT!);
const clientKeyPath = path.resolve(process.cwd(), process.env.CLIENT_KEY!);
const caCertPath = path.resolve(process.cwd(), process.env.CA_CERT!);

if (!fs.existsSync(clientCertPath)) {
  throw new Error(`Client cert file not found: ${clientCertPath}`);
}
if (!fs.existsSync(clientKeyPath)) {
  throw new Error(`Client key file not found: ${clientKeyPath}`);
}
if (!fs.existsSync(caCertPath)) {
  throw new Error(`CA cert file not found: ${caCertPath}`);
}

const agent = new https.Agent({
  cert: fs.readFileSync(clientCertPath),
  key: fs.readFileSync(clientKeyPath),
  ca: fs.readFileSync(caCertPath),
  rejectUnauthorized: false, // Allow self-signed certs for testing
});

export { agent };
```

- `cert` and `key`: Client certificate and private key
- `ca`: CA certificate to verify the server's certificate
- `rejectUnauthorized: false`: Allows self-signed certificates for testing
- File existence checks: Ensures certificate files exist before creating the agent

## How mTLS Works

1. **Client Hello**: Frontend initiates HTTPS connection with server
2. **Server Authentication**: Server sends its certificate; frontend verifies it against the CA
3. **Client Authentication**: Server requests client certificate; frontend sends its certificate
4. **Mutual Verification**: Server verifies client certificate against the CA
5. **Secure Communication**: If both verifications succeed, encrypted TLS session is established

## Security Benefits

- **Mutual Authentication**: Both parties prove their identity
- **Encryption**: All communication is encrypted using TLS 1.3
- **Certificate-based**: No passwords or tokens that can be stolen
- **CA Validation**: Certificates must be signed by trusted CA
- **Man-in-the-Middle Protection**: Certificate verification prevents MITM attacks

## Running the Application

### Backend
```bash
cd backend
python run.py
```

### Frontend
```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev
```

The frontend will be available at `http://localhost:3000` and will proxy API requests to `https://localhost:8000` using mTLS.

## Troubleshooting

- Ensure all certificate files exist in `certs/`
- Verify certificate validity dates
- Check that the server is running on HTTPS (port 8000)
- Confirm client certificate paths are correct in frontend API routes
- Use browser developer tools to inspect network requests for SSL errors

Commit message:

Add Windows instructions for mTLS setup

Security_Design.md, after:

# Mutual TLS (mTLS) Implementation

## Overview

This application implements Mutual TLS (mTLS) for secure communication between the frontend and backend. mTLS ensures that both the client (frontend) and server (backend) authenticate each other using X.509 certificates, providing strong mutual authentication and encrypted communication.

## Certificate Management

Certificates are generated and stored in the `certs/` directory at the project root:

- **CA Certificate**: `ca.crt` and `ca.key` - The Certificate Authority used to sign both server and client certificates.
- **Server Certificate**: `server.crt` and `server.key` - Used by the backend server to prove its identity.
- **Client Certificate**: `client.crt` and `client.key` - Used by the frontend to authenticate with the backend.

Certificate paths and backend URL are configured via environment variables in the `.env` file at the project root:
- `CA_CERT=/absolute/path/to/certs/ca.crt`
- `SERVER_CERT=/absolute/path/to/certs/server.crt`
- `SERVER_KEY=/absolute/path/to/certs/server.key`
- `CLIENT_CERT=/absolute/path/to/certs/client.crt`
- `CLIENT_KEY=/absolute/path/to/certs/client.key`
- `BACKEND_URL=https://localhost:8000`

### Certificate Generation

The certificates were generated using OpenSSL. To regenerate them:

```bash
# Generate CA
openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:4096 -keyout ca.key -out ca.crt -days 365 -nodes -subj "/CN=MyCA"

# Generate server certificate
openssl req -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout server.key -out server.csr -nodes -subj "/CN=localhost"
openssl x509 -req -in server.csr -CA ca.crt -CAkey ca.key -out server.crt -days 365 -CAcreateserial

# Generate client certificate
openssl req -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout client.key -out client.csr -nodes -subj "/CN=client"
openssl x509 -req -in client.csr -CA ca.crt -CAkey ca.key -out client.crt -days 365
```
### Windows Certificate Generation

On Windows, you can generate the certificates using OpenSSL. First, ensure OpenSSL is installed. You can install it via:

- **Git for Windows** (which includes Git Bash with OpenSSL): Download from https://gitforwindows.org/
- **Direct download**: From the OpenSSL website at https://slproweb.com/products/Win32OpenSSL.html

**Note**: OpenSSL is required for generating X.509 certificates used in mTLS. Windows' built-in OpenSSH agent service is for SSH key management and cannot be used for X.509 certificate generation.

Once installed, open Command Prompt, PowerShell, or Git Bash and navigate to the `certs/` directory. The commands are identical to the Linux instructions above:

**Note**: Ensure the OpenSSL executable is in your system's PATH. If using Git Bash, the commands work the same as in a Linux terminal.

## Backend Configuration

The backend is a FastAPI application served by uvicorn with SSL/TLS enabled.

### Key Files:
- [`backend/main.py`](backend/main.py) - FastAPI application with API routes
- [`backend/run.py`](backend/run.py) - Server startup configuration

### SSL Configuration in `run.py`:
```python
import uvicorn
import os
import pathlib
from dotenv import load_dotenv, find_dotenv

if __name__ == "__main__":
    load_dotenv(find_dotenv())

    def resolve_cert_path(env_var):
        cert_path = os.environ[env_var]
        p = pathlib.Path(cert_path)
        if not p.is_absolute():
            # Assume relative to project root
            project_root = pathlib.Path(__file__).parent.parent
            p = project_root / p
        if not p.exists():
            raise FileNotFoundError(f"Certificate file not found: {p}")
        return str(p)

    uvicorn.run(
        "main:app",
        host="0.0.0.0",
        port=8000,
        ssl_keyfile=resolve_cert_path('SERVER_KEY'),
        ssl_certfile=resolve_cert_path('SERVER_CERT'),
        ssl_ca_certs=resolve_cert_path('CA_CERT'),
        ssl_verify_mode="CERT_REQUIRED",
        reload=True,
    )
```

- `ssl_keyfile` and `ssl_certfile`: Server's private key and certificate
- `ssl_ca_certs`: CA certificate to verify client certificates
- `ssl_verify_mode="CERT_REQUIRED"`: Requires and verifies client certificates

## Frontend Configuration

The frontend is a Next.js application that makes API calls to the backend using client certificates.

### Key Files:
- [`frontend/src/app/api/items/route.ts`](frontend/src/app/api/items/route.ts) - API route for items collection
- [`frontend/src/app/api/items/[id]/route.ts`](frontend/src/app/api/items/[id]/route.ts) - API route for individual items

### HTTPS Agent Configuration in `frontend/src/lib/https-agent.ts`:
```typescript
import https from 'https';
import fs from 'fs';
import path from 'path';

// Resolve and check certificate paths
const clientCertPath = path.resolve(process.cwd(), process.env.CLIENT_CERT!);
const clientKeyPath = path.resolve(process.cwd(), process.env.CLIENT_KEY!);
const caCertPath = path.resolve(process.cwd(), process.env.CA_CERT!);

if (!fs.existsSync(clientCertPath)) {
  throw new Error(`Client cert file not found: ${clientCertPath}`);
}
if (!fs.existsSync(clientKeyPath)) {
  throw new Error(`Client key file not found: ${clientKeyPath}`);
}
if (!fs.existsSync(caCertPath)) {
  throw new Error(`CA cert file not found: ${caCertPath}`);
}

const agent = new https.Agent({
  cert: fs.readFileSync(clientCertPath),
  key: fs.readFileSync(clientKeyPath),
  ca: fs.readFileSync(caCertPath),
  rejectUnauthorized: false, // Allow self-signed certs for testing
});

export { agent };
```

- `cert` and `key`: Client certificate and private key
- `ca`: CA certificate to verify the server's certificate
- `rejectUnauthorized: false`: Allows self-signed certificates for testing
- File existence checks: Ensures certificate files exist before creating the agent

## How mTLS Works

1. **Client Hello**: Frontend initiates HTTPS connection with server
2. **Server Authentication**: Server sends its certificate; frontend verifies it against the CA
3. **Client Authentication**: Server requests client certificate; frontend sends its certificate
4. **Mutual Verification**: Server verifies client certificate against the CA
5. **Secure Communication**: If both verifications succeed, encrypted TLS session is established

## Security Benefits

- **Mutual Authentication**: Both parties prove their identity
- **Encryption**: All communication is encrypted using TLS 1.3
- **Certificate-based**: No passwords or tokens that can be stolen
- **CA Validation**: Certificates must be signed by trusted CA
- **Man-in-the-Middle Protection**: Certificate verification prevents MITM attacks

## Running the Application

### Backend
```bash
cd backend
python run.py
```

### Frontend
```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev
```

The frontend will be available at `http://localhost:3000` and will proxy API requests to `https://localhost:8000` using mTLS.

## Troubleshooting

- Ensure all certificate files exist in `certs/`
- Verify certificate validity dates
- Check that the server is running on HTTPS (port 8000)
- Confirm client certificate paths are correct in frontend API routes
- Use browser developer tools to inspect network requests for SSL errors
